you already know though a lot of meat
eaters will give you this line that
hunting is natural eating cows is
natural eating pigs is natural and I
rarely deal with it because my own
approach is not based on embracing or
rejecting nature to me that's really
irrelevant um to use my favorite example
of leather shoes I don't think we can
really talk about leather shoes is
something either natural or unnatural
we're a bunch of bipeds that evolved in
northern Africa if you ask me is it
natural to raise a cow in a concrete
shed under a steel roof with steel bars
all around to raise a cow that way its
whole life just so you can kill it cut
off its skin and wrap it around your
feet in the form of a shoe I think the
concept of nature is completely
irrelevant both ways we can't justify
that as natural and we also can't really
condemn it as unnatural but we can
condemn it as obsolete and then we can
look back there's the world and saying
even if it was necessary for a thousand
years to use leather for some of these
products we had no better alternative or
at least within Europe maybe we had no
better alternative what have you
different climates probably did have
different alternatives but I digress
whether or not there was a better
alternative in history we do have better
alternatives today we have better
alternatives ethically and ecologically
and it's obsolete so we got to look at
it in that framework neither natural nor
unnatural but obsolete but we've just
had a mind-blowing experience of
discovering a non vegan ingredient in
conditioner here hair products
conditioner that we would have never
even have thought to look for you know I
didn't think of it that way but you're
right so as a vegan I have a lot of
experience reading the labels on food on
bars of soap on all kinds of thing but
I've been shaving bald since high school
so yeah that's actually really true babe
know that that's part of it cuz I'm the
one who reads Chinese in this
relationship we're living in China I'm
picking up and looking that stuff that's
right but conditioner and shampoo I
never gave that much thought to but it
turns out there's some kind of
international agreements against whaling
that prevents you from using
in these products all around the world
but I'm guessing the People's Republic
of China never signed that agreement and
we discovered to our horror that the
vast majority of shampoo here contains
whale oil it's true China
beware vegans beware alright let's let's
keep it all the way real in this the
first bottle we bought it was a European
brand name and we blithely assumed that
it would have the same kind of
ingredients you would get if you bought
that same brand in Europe or in the
United States it's one of these brands
that's around and we only found out
afterward after he'd finished the bottle
that it contains whale oil yeah
so it's a pain in the ass in English
it's a pain in the ass to go through all
the green light but in a different
language sure we're all a lot of the
ingredients are chemicals that yes like
you said these weird translations from
Latin right so some of those names are
meaningless in English to begin with
because they're a Latin you know word
with hyphens in it yeah interpreting a
chemical formula like you definitely
wouldn't have learned any of those
Chinese that we didn't even think - yeah
we didn't to translate we first bought
it but right so you did have the
experience for one month now looking
back on it you were in effect cracking
open the skull of a sperm whale and
dipping your head inside the fluid
that's inside the sperm whale skull it's
a it's a tradition of you know perfumery
and soap making that goes back to like
Renaissance Europe at least that's a
really ancient thing of you know killing
sperm whales to make that stuff
property that's right yeah but totally
weird that they are still using it now
it doesn't seem to be yeah something
that should still be in use yeah I mean
apparently I mean just Wikipedia told us
there is some kind of international
treaty that has made it illegal in some
places and not others but apart from the
question of being illegal there's this
question of obsolescence do human beings
need to kill sperm whales so they can
have shiny hair it's it's it's just
bizarre and again to bring it back this
question of natural on a natural which I
don't normally do how can we possibly
imagine that we're a bunch of bipeds
were a bunch of apes that evolved in the
plains of northern Africa to peer over
the edge of the continent into the ocean
and pluck away allowed pluck it out bias
by its teeth and crack its skull open
just to dip our heads in the gooey
liquid inside so we can have we can have
shiny rare it's it's bizarre but to me
like I've mentioned this years ago on on
YouTube but you know it used to be
really disturbing to me when I was
living in France with my ex-wife and my
daughter my daughter's no four years old
all the baby food in France of course I
exaggerate a lot of the baby food in
France was based on veal but I'd be
standing there picking through there'd
be like 30 different baby foods with
veal and I was picking out the one or
two here were there that were just made
of mushy peas or just made of carrots or
whatever veal was a really popular thing
to feed to babies and it was like the
image of that because like the baby that
he doesn't even have teeth the baby has
no teeth so like in your mind's eye in
terms of evolution and evolutionary
biology or what's natural was normal
do you imagine like a woman holding this
little infant and then throwing it like
a vampire bat got a cow not even an
adult cow and a calf and the baby like
sick thinking it's guns into this cow
and tearing it apart like it's so
bizarre how can you think it's natural
for for kids to be even though again
natural and natural or irrelevant don't
get
but the the images that are those yeah
yeah yeah and I think that is I think it
is like sympathetic magic like in the
minds of the French people like because
the human baby is small and weak it
should eat cows that are small like I
think there is a kind of yeah yeah in
their minds I it makes sense to them
yeah and then later they grow up in eat
steak I guess right God but I mean I
can't admit that there may be some
redeeming qualities to some animal
products of course Milly water calcium
from milk but I can't think of her
deeming quality of whale oil and
obviously so we've got more than 1
billion people living in China and this
is mainstream here it wasn't like we
just picked up one brand that it was
especially expensive and had it we went
through more than 30 different brands
then for different brands and different
shops and we had brands that were
apparently Japanese so know if they're
imported from Japan or seizing a
Japanese brand a mere brands that had
European names brands that had the same
names used in America like head and
shoulders and all of them had this whale
one well we first discovered it because
we purchased another conditioner and
that one once I got it out of the bag
it's the the back of it's one of the
ingredients was hormone so that's what I
do you want to actually look at the
ingredients to say wait is this actually
snail hormones in English in English it
says snail hormone yeah so I sat down
with my phone to try to translate word
by word what this stuff is made of and
it wasn't snail hormone it was it was
whale so we taught a class recently
where we were writing the word whale on
the chalkboard so I have I'm familiar
with the Chinese word for whale but
you're just in a state of disbelief
looking at that right like and you
wonder like is it just an adjective like
you know like does it mean it in a in a
poetic or a literary sense like and
you're going to dishes like no this is
literally a fluid from the skull of a
certain type of whale you know sperma
Ceti oil that's what used to be called
in English right would you just
Wikipedia we were just looking at yeah
so we had this mind-blowing realization
at that point and we we found out that
the last conditioner you bought like a
month ago or something
that that also had this ingredient in it
and then we're going through the shelf
at all these different brands have it we
eventually found just one brand that's
imported from Australia that did not but
this is a mass phenomenon and I can't
imagine how many whales are being killed
to supply China with care conditioner
yeah even the Western brands great right
right right
and in America head and shoulders
wouldn't contain whale oil but here in
China it does an Oreo under the sea
brand name unknown a presume at the same
core corporate ownership or some kind of
corporate arrangement okay you can you
can write a letter but I mean I'd never
become another benighted vegan quest
sort of fail phase out the use of sperm
well but yeah it is mind-blowing because
this is not like look if I was in Hong
Kong and only the most expensive shops
in Hong Kong had this special whale oil
for people's hair that would be kind of
shocking in itself that would be like
shark fin soup and you know something
expensive but you realize there are only
so many sharks on the planet it's not
like everybody on the corner can eat
shark fin but this really is this was
going to several normal grocery stores
normal grocery stores that had
conditioner and every single brand
thirty different brands maybe 50
different brands all of them have in
their top list of ingredients this this
extract from the corpses of whales yeah
mind look I hope I'll just say as a
footnote here I hope it turns out they
were wrong I hope it turns out like
someone finds an article on the internet
saying that you know it's false
advertising like the labeling is somehow
old misleading or the labeling is some
kind of poetic use of the term but every
every single thing I looked up indicated
and including the women we talk to in
the shops the woman today I really said
to her face to face it isn't this in
Chinese they're speaking Chinese isn't
this bizarre isn't this bizarre to
imagine that millions of whales are
being killed so that people can you know
have shiny hair isn't this strange
you know she was basically agreeing
governement some of the women else they
just had never thought about it obvious
but yeah whale means whale it's not yeah
so that's anyway that's that daily
burden of being vegan we went to buy
something like popcorn and you know
you're going through the different
brands of popcorn seems like every
single one has you know milk protein or
something added to it that's not vegan
and yeah it's mind-blowing to think that
something as anodyne as a bottle on the
shelf you know I mean hair conditioner
it just it looks morally neutral you
know what I mean it looks like there's
no difference in two brands but one of
them is ineluctably ethically linked to
this really unfathomable atrocity it's
hard to imagine human beings dragging up
a dead whale onto the hull of a ship
with chains to crack open its skull and
get this get this fluid you know I mean
it's it's it's just a moral obscenity
and there's another bottle next to a
shelf that looks just the same but
ethically and ecologically and
economically is of such a different
significance in such a different
character so yeah
[Music]